A Cornell University
student will appear in court
after he was arrested
and charged with threatening
to kill and injure Jewish students.
According to court documents.
The suspect posted
at least one threat from the area
where the university is located
and also admitted to posting the threat,
posting the threats in an interview
with the FBI.
CNN's Athena Jones, very latest on this.
She also sat down with a group of Jewish
high school students
about this terrifying and dangerous rise
in anti-Semitism.
Athena,
now that first and foremost
after the arrest at Cornell, what is
what is the latest that you're hearing?
Well, we know that
this suspect, Patrick Dye,
is expected
to appear this afternoon in court.
They'll discuss, you know,
his representation,
whether he'll be able to be
released on bail or not.
But this all comes as Jews, Jewish people
all across
America are concerned
about the rise in anti-Semitism.
I sat down with five Jewish
teenagers, and concerns
about anti-Semitism
are the very first thing
that that came up in that discussion.
Another thing that really struck me
immediately upon
sitting down with them
is just
what a strong connection
each and every one of them has to Israel.
Each of them has family
and friends there.
They've gone
multiple times to visit
Israel over the course of their life.
They consider this a second home
and they spoke about their concerns
about how the war
will impact their loved ones in Israel,
how it affects their lives
here in America,
and how it will affect the world.
It's a situation that hits close to home.
We're such a tight knit community.
This is like our family.
It's this shock that's like consistent
and you can't escape it.
I started
reaching out to people to check up,
and it was hours later.
I'm still checking up on people
and there's still more people
to reach out to
and talk to and people that
I was really worried about.
What have the last few weeks been like
being here in America,
observing what's going on in
Israel and Gaza?
I think it's been this
sort of balancing act of worrying about
like, when's the other shoe
going to drop here in America
and caring for and like making sure
to be a good support system
for like my friends and family in Israel.
Waiting for the other shoe to drop?
How do you mean?
I feel like right now in America,
we're in kind of this grace period
with Israel
where Israel was attacked
and the
general feeling towards
Israel is still fairly positive
and that pity
is not going to be there anymore.
And I think that that's
when bad things are going to start
happening in America to Jews.
I disagree with the fact that
the majority of American sentiment
is one of pro-Israel or pity or sympathy.
I think now that,
you know, Israel has been
bombing Gaza and
there have been attempts
to get the hostages back and all this
all that the military apparatus.
They say the political response
to the war has been
that especially what
they're seeing on social media.
It's a very,
I think, inherent Jewish value
in times of grief
to sit in your pain
and sit in your discomfort
and faster in prayer and community
and acknowledge what's going on.
And that's our way of dealing
with grief and processing.
And I think to have such raw pain
be turned into something
political is
very, very difficult to deal with.
It's an impossible situation
when you've been attacked
by this terror group
that's also governing
and hiding behind its own people.
I can't, like watch
innocent Palestinians die, but like,
it's like you poke a bear
and Hamas poked a bear
and then went
and hid behind a
behind a bunch of little cubs.
It's hard for me to hear.
Free Gaza, a free Palestine,
because that's not that Hamas is hurting
Gaza's citizens
just as much as it's hurting
Israeli citizens,
like being pro-Palestine or pro Gaza
should not mean being pro Hamas.
How do you think this ends.
When you're
working on the amount
of precedent that there is
with Israel, with Gaza,
with the Palestinians, with Hamas?
I don't foresee this ending
in a way that will feel very final.
Israel has lost
the innocent civilians in Gaza have lost.
Nobody can win a war like this.
And so what does the end look like?
It looks like loss.
Where do you find the hope
in a situation like this?
I have no hope that this conflict
will be resolved in the next century.
Like not at all.
I think this will be an almost immutable
fact of the Middle East
Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
This is where I turn to religion
and prayer.
God, you know, really
the core of Judaism.
And that's
that's helping me get through this.
Frances Geller was planning
to spend a gap year in Israel
before going to college.
That plan is now uncertain.
I truly believe
that perseverance is in our DNA.
We've been on
we've been around for all this time.
They try to get rid of us.
They won't.
And how can you not believe that?
That's who we are.
Hopefulness and fighting.
And it's undeniable.
So a really powerful and
important conversation
with these teenagers.
And another thing that struck me
from this conversation
is this overwhelming desire
to help every one of them
feels guilty
that they can't do more
from their perch here in America.
One young man said that his best friend
and he
they live parallel lives
until his best friend's
family moved to Israel.
And now
his best friend is in a few months
going to be joining the Israeli military.
And here he is
in America
feeling like he can't really do much.
So a lot of
feelings of helplessness and guilt
consuming them.
Just to reinforce,
these are high school students.
I'm just amazed at their eloquence
and their ability
to put voice
to the complexity of the pain
and what they're living through,
but also knowing that this started
with a terror attack coming from Hamas.
But my God, John.
Yeah.
And also living with the fear
now that they feel
increasingly under threat.
I will say.
Athena, terrific job.
Thank you. Thanks. Thanks.